What do we have here in the letter
that Paul wrote under inspiration
to the congregation in Philippi?
A letter that breathes love
and that motivates us
to increase in displaying godly joy.
Now, that may not always be easy
because life in this system of things
can be very difficult.
In fact, perhaps you
or your family or close friends
are facing a Goliathlike challenge
at this moment.
But think a little bit more about the context
and who wrote this letter to the Philippians,
where we’re told to “always rejoice.”
It was the apostle Paul.
Do you know where Paul was
when he wrote the letter?
Not in any comfortable office.
He was in a prison, likely in Rome.
Yet Paul’s positive attitude
makes it very clear
that deep-seated joy
does not depend on our circumstances.
But we do know that cultivating joy
requires personal effort.
How so?
Well, think about it.
We know that joy,
that pleasant emotion that we feel
when we receive something good
or we anticipate receiving good things,
is a product of holy spirit.
So we have to do something
in order to obtain more holy spirit.
We have to pray for it constantly.
And we can do that constantly
without ever doubting
that Jehovah wants
to give us more holy spirit
because Jesus assured us
that He’s a tender heavenly Father
who gives generously to His children
who ask for it.
But in addition to praying constantly,
what more can we do?
Well, like the apostle Paul, even when we’re
in the midst of trying circumstances,
we need to think about good things
—our blessings—
and we need to talk with our brothers
and sisters about those blessings.
For a few moments, let’s do that.
Let’s put aside for a moment
any distracting worry or challenge
or obstacle that we’re facing,
and let’s savor three special blessings
that Jehovah
has given all of us as his people.
Our first blessing
is alluded to at Proverbs 4:18.
You might take your eyes there
to Proverbs 4:18.
There, in contrast with the path,
or the way, of the wicked one,
we’re told that “the path of the righteous
“[that’s your path; that’s my path]
is like the bright morning light
that grows brighter and brighter
until full daylight.”
Well, this reminds us
that we have all been recipients
of spiritual enlightenment.
And that’s quite a contrast
to Satan’s system,
which currently
is in dense spiritual darkness.
Think about what we enjoy
because of what Jehovah has given us
in the way of spiritual enlightenment.
We know things that the world
has no clue about.
We know that Jehovah is our God,
the God who “Causes to Become”
and can cause you and me
to become whatever is needed
to fulfill his good purpose
and to bring us joy.
We know about Jesus, the powerful angels,
and the establishment
of the Kingdom in 1914, a real government.
None of this is any mystery to us.
We know the truth.
We know that the big issue
is not what we may see in the headlines
of the world’s newspapers.
The big issue
has to do with universal sovereignty.
And who will we choose to support
—Jehovah’s side or Satan’s side?
Thanks to the gift
of spiritual enlightenment,
a path that keeps getting
“brighter and brighter” for us
as we walk closely
with Jehovah and his organization,
we know why we suffer, why we die,
and how temporary
all of these challenging circumstances are.
We are confident
there will be a resurrection.
So no matter what happens
in this system of things
to us personally or to those whom we love,
Jehovah will undo all the damage
very easily
because he can do so and he wants to do so.
Of course, there are many things
that we don’t yet know
about the future and Jehovah’s details
with regard to us personally.
We don’t know the exact date
of the end of this wicked system of things.
But our purpose in life is no secret.
We know what our purpose in life is.
We’re going to live forever
so that we can praise and fear Jehovah
for all eternity.
Now, what do you think
as we ponder our gift, our blessing,
of spiritual enlightenment?
Is it ordinary, or is it extraordinary?
That’s a gift that when we think about it
and when we talk about it,
it increases our joy.
Let’s consider a second spiritual blessing.
It’s referred to at Isaiah 60:22.
Please read that with me
—Isaiah 60:22:
“The little one will become a thousand
and the small one a mighty nation.
I myself, Jehovah,
will speed it up in its own time.”
What’s the blessing?
As foretold, we are seeing spiritual growth.
Our spiritual family
is getting larger and larger by the day.
In fact, on average,
during the 2017 service year,
each week 5,400 were baptized
in symbol of their dedication to Jehovah.
And in harmony with the prophecy,
this growth will accelerate.
Well, what does that mean for us?
It means that our work here at Bethel,
at remote translation offices, at facilities
—doing maintenance and cleaning and caring
for these beautiful facilities
dedicated to Jehovah’s worship—
at the Assembly Halls
is urgent, necessary work
that supports our growing spiritual family.
It’s another one of the blessings
that Jehovah has given you and me,
this blessing of seeing firsthand
the growth of our spiritual family
and being able to support it.
Well, consider in that same chapter
of Isaiah (chapter 60)
an additional blessing, a third,
mentioned in verse 17:
“Instead of the copper I will bring in gold,
“and instead of the iron
I will bring in silver,
“instead of the wood, copper,
and instead of the stones, iron;
“and I will appoint peace as your overseers
and righteousness as your task assigners.”
Have you seen
the fulfillment of this prophecy
during this special time,
“the conclusion of the system of things”?
Indeed we have.
We have seen, experienced,
improvements in organizational arrangements.
Some in our families, congregation,
and here at Bethel
remember when a congregation
had a congregation servant
and not a body of elders,
when countries had a branch servant
and not a Branch Committee,
and when direction was given
often by the president
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
rather than by a clearly
established Governing Body.
During the 1970’s,
though, there were improvements.
Direction in the congregations
was given principally
by a body of elders, not by one individual.
Think of more recent
organizational improvements
having to do with our theocratic schools.
The School for Kingdom Evangelizers is
another one of those
recent organizational improvements.
It’s incredible to think that it
was seven years ago, in July 2011,
that the then new school
The Bible School for Christian Couples
was inaugurated at Patterson Bethel.
But then just two years later, in 2013,
the Governing Body approved the merger
of the Bible School for Christian Couples
with the Bible School for Single Brothers.
And now we have what is known
as the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
And what has resulted?
Increase, strengthening of congregations,
and diligent workers in the harvest
caring for assistance
with maintenance of facilities
and supporting the work
in foreign- and indigenous-language fields.
You know, thinking about this
and those other blessings
we’ve just discussed briefly,
reminds me of the example in the Scriptures
of the experience of the unnamed
and poor widow of Zarephath
during the time of the prophet Elijah.
In faith, though her circumstances were dire,
she used her last bit of flour and oil
to make bread for Jehovah’s prophet.
And what happened?
As Elijah had promised,
Jehovah added to her supply of food
so that there was enough
to feed her, her son, and the prophet.
“The large jar of flour did not run out,
and the small jar of oil did not run dry.”
Brothers and sisters,
each of us has a figurative jar of blessings,
a jar of joys,
that is never going to run out.
Regularly, we need to stop
and think about what’s
in our jar of blessings.
We need to talk about them.
As our Kingdom song number 111 says:
“Our reasons for joy are abundant,”
and they are
“like riches increasing in worth.”
So like the apostle Paul,
even if our circumstances at this moment
are very difficult,
incredibly with Jehovah’s help,
you and I can always rejoice.